README.md, before:

[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/onyx-and-iris/voicemeeter-api-go.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/onyx-and-iris/voicemeeter-api-go)

# A Go Wrapper for Voicemeeter API

This package offers a Go interface for the Voicemeeter Remote C API.

For an outline of past/future changes refer to: [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md)

## Tested against

-   Basic 1.0.8.2
-   Banana 2.0.6.2
-   Potato 3.0.2.2

## Requirements

-   [Voicemeeter](https://voicemeeter.com/)
-   Go 1.18 or greater

## Installation

#### GO.MOD

Add to your `go.mod` file:

`require github.com/onyx-and-iris/voicemeeter-api-go vX.X.X`

replace `vX.X.X` with the version you need

#### GO GET

Install voicemeeter-api-go package from your console to download the latest version.

`go get github.com/onyx-and-iris/voicemeeter-api-go`

## `Use`

#### `main.go`

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"

	"github.com/onyx-and-iris/voicemeeter-api-go"
)

func main() {
	kindId := "banana"
	vmRem := voicemeeter.GetRemote(kindId)

	vmRem.Login()

	vmRem.Strip[0].SetLabel("rode podmic")
	vmRem.Strip[0].SetMute(true)
	fmt.Printf("Strip 0 (%s) mute was set to %v\n", vmRem.Strip[0].GetLabel(), vmRem.Strip[0].GetMute())

	vmRem.Logout()
}
```

## `kindId`

Pass the kind of Voicemeeter as an argument. kindId may be:

-   `basic`
-   `banana`
-   `potato`

## `Remote Type`

#### `vmRem.Strip`

[]t_strip slice containing both physicalStrip and virtualStrip types

#### `vmRem.Bus`

[]t_bus slice containing both physicalBus and virtualBus types

#### `vmRem.Button`

[]button slice containing button types, one for each macrobutton

#### `vmRem.Command`

pointer to command type, represents action type functions

#### `vmRem.Vban`

pointer to vban type, containing both vbanInStream and vbanOutStream slices

#### `vmRem.Device`

pointer to device type, represents physical input/output hardware devices

#### `vmRem.Recorder`

pointer to recorder type, represents the recorder

#### `vmRem.Type()`

returns the type of Voicemeeter as a string

#### `vmRem.Version()`

returns the version of Voicemeeter as a string

#### `vmRem.SendText(<script>)`

sets many parameters in script format eg. ("Strip[0].Mute=1;Bus[3].Gain=3.6")

#### `vmRem.Register(o observer)`

register an object as an observer

#### `vmRem.Deregister(o observer)`

deregister an object as an observer

#### `vmRem.Pdirty()`

returns True iff a GUI parameter has changed

#### `vmRem.Mdirty()`

returns True iff a macrobutton paramter has changed

## `Available commands`

### Strip

The following functions are available

-   `GetMute() bool`
-   `SetMute(val bool)`
-   `GetMono() bool`
-   `SetMono(val bool)`
-   `GetSolo() bool`
-   `SetSolo(val bool)`
-   `GetLimit() int`
-   `SetLimit(val int)` from -40 to 12
-   `GetLabel() string`
-   `SetLabel(val string)`
-   `GetGain() float64`
-   `SetGain(val float32)` from -60.0 to 12.0
-   `GetMc() bool`
-   `SetMc(val bool)`
-   `GetComp() float64`
-   `SetComp(val float32)` from 0.0 to 10.0
-   `GetGate() float64`
-   `SetGate(val float32)` from 0.0 to 10.0
-   `GetAudibility() float64`
-   `SetAudibility(val float32)` from 0.0 to 10.0
-   `GetA1() bool - GetA5() bool`
-   `SetA1(val bool) - SetA5(val bool)`

example:

```go
vmRem.Strip[3].SetGain(3.7)
fmt.Println(vmRem.Strip[0].GetLabel())
vmRem.Strip[4].SetA1(true)
```

##### Gainlayers

-   `vmRem.Strip[i].GainLayer()[j]`

The following functions are available

-   `Get() float64`
-   `Set(val float32)`

example:

```go
vmRem.Strip[6].GainLayer()[3].Set(-13.6)
```

##### Levels

-   `vmRem.Strip[i].Levels()`

The following functions are available

-   `PreFader() []float32`
-   `PostFader() []float32`
-   `PostMute() []float32`

example:

```go
fmt.Println(vmRem.Strip[5].Levels().PreFader())
```

### Bus

The following functions are available

-   `String() string`
-   `GetMute() bool`
-   `SetMute(val bool)`
-   `GetEq() bool`
-   `SetEq(val bool)`
-   `GetMono() bool`
-   `SetMono(val bool)`
-   `GetLabel() string`
-   `SetLabel(val string)`
-   `GetGain() float64`
-   `SetGain(val float32)` from -60.0 to 12.0

```go
vmRem.Bus[3].SetEq(true)
fmt.Println(vmRem.Bus[0].GetLabel())
```

##### Modes

-   `vmRem.Bus[i].Mode()`

The following functions are available

-   `SetNormal(val bool)`
-   `GetNormal() bool`
-   `SetAmix(val bool)`
-   `GetAmix() bool`
-   `SetBmix(val bool)`
-   `GetBmix() bool`
-   `SetRepeat(val bool)`
-   `GetRepeat() bool`
-   `SetComposite(val bool)`
-   `GetComposite() bool`
-   `SetTvMix(val bool)`
-   `GetTvMix() bool`
-   `SetUpMix21(val bool)`
-   `GetUpMix21() bool`
-   `SetUpMix41(val bool)`
-   `GetUpMix41() bool`
-   `SetUpMix61(val bool)`
-   `GetUpMix61() bool`
-   `SetCenterOnly(val bool)`
-   `GetCenterOnly() bool`
-   `SetLfeOnly(val bool)`
-   `GetLfeOnly() bool`
-   `SetRearOnly(val bool)`
-   `GetRearOnly() bool`

example:

```go
vmRem.Bus[3].Mode().SetAmix(true)
vmRem.Bus[4].Mode().SetCenterOnly(true)
```

##### Levels

-   `vmRem.Bus[i].Levels()`

The following functions are available

-   `All() []float32`

example:

```go
fmt.Println(vmRem.Bus[1].Levels().All())
```

### Button

The following functions are available

-   `GetState() bool`
-   `SetState(val bool)`
-   `GetStateOnly() bool`
-   `SetStateOnly(val bool)`
-   `GetTrigger() bool`
-   `SetTrigger(val bool)`

example:

```go
vmRem.Button[37].SetState(true)
fmt.Println(vmRem.Button[64].GetStateOnly())
```

### Command

The following functions are available

-   `Show()` Show Voicemeeter GUI if it's hidden
-   `Hide()` Hide Voicemeeter GUI if it's shown
-   `Shutdown()` Shuts down the GUI
-   `Restart()` Restart the audio engine
-   `Lock(val bool)` Lock the Voicemeeter GUI

example:

```go
vmRem.Command.Restart()
vmRem.Command.Show()
```

### VBAN

-   `vmRem.Vban.Enable()` `vmRem.Vban.Disable()` Turn VBAN on or off

##### Instream | Outstream

-   `vmRem.Vban.InStream` `vmRem.Vban.OutStream`

The following functions are available

-   `GetOn() bool`
-   `SetOn(val bool)`
-   `GetName() string`
-   `SetName(val string)`
-   `GetIp() string`
-   `SetIp(val string)`
-   `GetPort() int`
-   `SetPort(val int)` from 1024 to 65535
-   `GetSr() int`
-   `SetSr(val int)` (11025, 16000, 22050, 24000, 32000, 44100, 48000, 64000, 88200, 96000)
-   `GetChannel() int`
-   `SetChannel(val int)` from 1 to 8
-   `GetBit() int`
-   `SetBit(val int)` 16 or 24
-   `GetQuality() int`
-   `SetQuality(val int)` from 0 to 4
-   `GetRoute() int`
-   `SetRoute(val int)` from 0 to 8

example:

```go
# turn VBAN on
vmRem.Vban.Enable()

// turn on vban instream 0
vmRem.Vban.InStream[0].SetOn(true)

// set bit property for outstream 3 to 24
vmRem.Vban.OutStream[3].SetBit(24)
```

### Device

The following functions are available

-   `Ins`
-   `Outs`
-   `Input(val int)`
-   `Output(val int)`

example:

```go
for i := 0; i < int(vmRem.Device.Ins()); i++ {
	fmt.Println(vmRem.Device.Input(i))
}
```

### Recorder

The following functions are available

-   `Play()`
-   `Stop()`
-   `Pause()`
-   `Replay()`
-   `Record()`
-   `Ff()`
-   `Rew()`

example:

```go
vmRem.Recorder.Play()
vmRem.Recorder.Stop()

# Enable loop play
vmRem.Recorder.Loop(true)

# Disable recorder out channel B2
vmRem.Recorder.SetB2(false)
```

### Run tests

To run all tests:

```
go test ./...
```

### Official Documentation

-   [Voicemeeter Remote C API](https://github.com/onyx-and-iris/Voicemeeter-SDK/blob/main/VoicemeeterRemoteAPI.pdf)

Commit message:

docstrings added to functions, types and methods
CHANGELOG first update

pre-commit updated to look in root of repo.

version retraction added to go.mod

README updated to reflect changes

README.md, after:

[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/onyx-and-iris/voicemeeter-api-go.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/onyx-and-iris/voicemeeter-api-go)

# A Go Wrapper for Voicemeeter API

This package offers a Go interface for the Voicemeeter Remote C API.

For an outline of past/future changes refer to: [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md)

## Tested against

-   Basic 1.0.8.2
-   Banana 2.0.6.2
-   Potato 3.0.2.2

## Requirements

-   [Voicemeeter](https://voicemeeter.com/)
-   Go 1.18 or greater

## Installation

#### GO.MOD

Add to your `go.mod` file:

`require github.com/onyx-and-iris/voicemeeter-api-go vX.X.X`

where `vX.X.X` is the version you require.

#### GO GET

Install voicemeeter-api-go package from your console to download the latest version.

`go get github.com/onyx-and-iris/voicemeeter-api-go`

## `Use`

#### `main.go`

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"

	"github.com/onyx-and-iris/voicemeeter-api-go"
)

func main() {
	kindId := "banana"
	vmRem := voicemeeter.NewRemote(kindId)

	vmRem.Login()

	vmRem.Strip[0].SetLabel("rode podmic")
	vmRem.Strip[0].SetMute(true)
	fmt.Printf("Strip 0 (%s) mute was set to %v\n", vmRem.Strip[0].GetLabel(), vmRem.Strip[0].GetMute())

	vmRem.Logout()
}
```

## `kindId`

Pass the kind of Voicemeeter as an argument. kindId may be:

-   `basic`
-   `banana`
-   `potato`

## `Remote Type`

#### `vmRem.Strip`

[]t_strip slice containing both physicalStrip and virtualStrip types

#### `vmRem.Bus`

[]t_bus slice containing both physicalBus and virtualBus types

#### `vmRem.Button`

[]button slice containing button types, one for each macrobutton

#### `vmRem.Command`

pointer to command type, represents action type functions

#### `vmRem.Vban`

pointer to vban type, containing both vbanInStream and vbanOutStream slices

#### `vmRem.Device`

pointer to device type, represents physical input/output hardware devices

#### `vmRem.Recorder`

pointer to recorder type, represents the recorder

#### `vmRem.Type()`

returns the type of Voicemeeter as a string

#### `vmRem.Version()`

returns the version of Voicemeeter as a string

#### `vmRem.SendText(<script>)`

sets many parameters in script format eg. ("Strip[0].Mute=1;Bus[3].Gain=3.6")

#### `vmRem.Register(o observer)`

register an object as an observer

#### `vmRem.Deregister(o observer)`

deregister an object as an observer

#### `vmRem.Pdirty()`

returns True iff a GUI parameter has changed

#### `vmRem.Mdirty()`

returns True iff a macrobutton paramter has changed

## `Available commands`

### Strip

The following methods are available

-   `GetMute() bool`
-   `SetMute(val bool)`
-   `GetMono() bool`
-   `SetMono(val bool)`
-   `GetSolo() bool`
-   `SetSolo(val bool)`
-   `GetLimit() int`
-   `SetLimit(val int)` from -40 to 12
-   `GetLabel() string`
-   `SetLabel(val string)`
-   `GetGain() float64`
-   `SetGain(val float32)` from -60.0 to 12.0
-   `GetMc() bool`
-   `SetMc(val bool)`
-   `GetComp() float64`
-   `SetComp(val float32)` from 0.0 to 10.0
-   `GetGate() float64`
-   `SetGate(val float32)` from 0.0 to 10.0
-   `GetAudibility() float64`
-   `SetAudibility(val float32)` from 0.0 to 10.0
-   `GetA1() bool - GetA5() bool`
-   `SetA1(val bool) - SetA5(val bool)`

example:

```go
vmRem.Strip[3].SetGain(3.7)
fmt.Println(vmRem.Strip[0].GetLabel())
vmRem.Strip[4].SetA1(true)
```

##### Gainlayers

-   `vmRem.Strip[i].GainLayer()[j]`

The following methods are available

-   `Get() float64`
-   `Set(val float32)`

example:

```go
vmRem.Strip[6].GainLayer()[3].Set(-13.6)
```

##### Levels

-   `vmRem.Strip[i].Levels()`

The following methods are available

-   `PreFader() []float32`
-   `PostFader() []float32`
-   `PostMute() []float32`

example:

```go
fmt.Println(vmRem.Strip[5].Levels().PreFader())
```

### Bus

The following methods are available

-   `String() string`
-   `GetMute() bool`
-   `SetMute(val bool)`
-   `GetEq() bool`
-   `SetEq(val bool)`
-   `GetMono() bool`
-   `SetMono(val bool)`
-   `GetLabel() string`
-   `SetLabel(val string)`
-   `GetGain() float64`
-   `SetGain(val float32)` from -60.0 to 12.0

```go
vmRem.Bus[3].SetEq(true)
fmt.Println(vmRem.Bus[0].GetLabel())
```

##### Modes

-   `vmRem.Bus[i].Mode()`

The following methods are available

-   `SetNormal(val bool)`
-   `GetNormal() bool`
-   `SetAmix(val bool)`
-   `GetAmix() bool`
-   `SetBmix(val bool)`
-   `GetBmix() bool`
-   `SetRepeat(val bool)`
-   `GetRepeat() bool`
-   `SetComposite(val bool)`
-   `GetComposite() bool`
-   `SetTvMix(val bool)`
-   `GetTvMix() bool`
-   `SetUpMix21(val bool)`
-   `GetUpMix21() bool`
-   `SetUpMix41(val bool)`
-   `GetUpMix41() bool`
-   `SetUpMix61(val bool)`
-   `GetUpMix61() bool`
-   `SetCenterOnly(val bool)`
-   `GetCenterOnly() bool`
-   `SetLfeOnly(val bool)`
-   `GetLfeOnly() bool`
-   `SetRearOnly(val bool)`
-   `GetRearOnly() bool`

example:

```go
vmRem.Bus[3].Mode().SetAmix(true)
vmRem.Bus[4].Mode().SetCenterOnly(true)
```

##### Levels

-   `vmRem.Bus[i].Levels()`

The following methods are available

-   `All() []float32`

example:

```go
fmt.Println(vmRem.Bus[1].Levels().All())
```

### Button

The following methods are available

-   `GetState() bool`
-   `SetState(val bool)`
-   `GetStateOnly() bool`
-   `SetStateOnly(val bool)`
-   `GetTrigger() bool`
-   `SetTrigger(val bool)`

example:

```go
vmRem.Button[37].SetState(true)
fmt.Println(vmRem.Button[64].GetStateOnly())
```

### Command

The following methods are available

-   `Show()` Show Voicemeeter GUI if it's hidden
-   `Hide()` Hide Voicemeeter GUI if it's shown
-   `Shutdown()` Shuts down the GUI
-   `Restart()` Restart the audio engine
-   `Lock(val bool)` Lock the Voicemeeter GUI

example:

```go
vmRem.Command.Restart()
vmRem.Command.Show()
```

### VBAN

-   `vmRem.Vban.Enable()` `vmRem.Vban.Disable()` Turn VBAN on or off

##### Instream | Outstream

-   `vmRem.Vban.InStream` `vmRem.Vban.OutStream`

The following methods are available

-   `GetOn() bool`
-   `SetOn(val bool)`
-   `GetName() string`
-   `SetName(val string)`
-   `GetIp() string`
-   `SetIp(val string)`
-   `GetPort() int`
-   `SetPort(val int)` from 1024 to 65535
-   `GetSr() int`
-   `SetSr(val int)` (11025, 16000, 22050, 24000, 32000, 44100, 48000, 64000, 88200, 96000)
-   `GetChannel() int`
-   `SetChannel(val int)` from 1 to 8
-   `GetBit() int`
-   `SetBit(val int)` 16 or 24
-   `GetQuality() int`
-   `SetQuality(val int)` from 0 to 4
-   `GetRoute() int`
-   `SetRoute(val int)` from 0 to 8

example:

```go
# turn VBAN on
vmRem.Vban.Enable()

// turn on vban instream 0
vmRem.Vban.InStream[0].SetOn(true)

// set bit property for outstream 3 to 24
vmRem.Vban.OutStream[3].SetBit(24)
```

### Device

The following methods are available

-   `Ins`
-   `Outs`
-   `Input(val int)`
-   `Output(val int)`

example:

```go
for i := 0; i < int(vmRem.Device.Ins()); i++ {
	fmt.Println(vmRem.Device.Input(i))
}
```

### Recorder

The following methods are available

-   `Play()`
-   `Stop()`
-   `Pause()`
-   `Replay()`
-   `Record()`
-   `Ff()`
-   `Rew()`

example:

```go
vmRem.Recorder.Play()
vmRem.Recorder.Stop()

# Enable loop play
vmRem.Recorder.Loop(true)

# Disable recorder out channel B2
vmRem.Recorder.SetB2(false)
```

### Run tests

To run all tests:

```
go test ./...
```

### Official Documentation

-   [Voicemeeter Remote C API](https://github.com/onyx-and-iris/Voicemeeter-SDK/blob/main/VoicemeeterRemoteAPI.pdf)
